Title: China allows Didi to resume signing up new users as tech crackdown eases | CNN Business
Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2023 09:42:00 GMT
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2023/01/16/tech/didi-new-user-registration-crackdown-intl-hnk/index.html
Content: China allows Didi to resume signing up new users as tech crackdown eases | CNN Business CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos More Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Follow CNN Business US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2020 Election Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Video Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Markets DOW S&P 500 NASDAQ Fear & Greed Index ----- is driving the US market Latest Market News China posts one of its worst economic performances in decades because of Covid China records first population decline in 60 years The steep plunge in used car prices -- what it means, and what's ahead Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later. China allows Didi to resume signing up new users as tech crackdown eases By Laura He, CNN Published 4:42 AM EST, Mon January 16, 2023 Link Copied! Video Ad Feedback China's once vibrant private sector suffocating under Xi's crackdown 03:20 - Source: CNN Hong Kong CNN — Ride-hailing giant Didi received approval to resume new user registration in China, it said Monday, providing more evidence that Beijing’s regulatory crackdown on tech giants might be coming to an end. The move is the latest sign that regulators are loosening the reins on the country’s beleaguered tech companies in a bid to spur economic growth. “For more than a year, our company has cooperated with the government’s cybersecurity review, seriously dealt with the security issues found in the review, and carried out a comprehensive rectification,” Didi said in a statement posted on its Weibo account. With the approval of the Cybersecurity Review Office, Didi will be able to resume adding new users “immediately,” it added. Didi is a poster child for Beijing’s years-long crackdown on its tech companies. Just days after its $4.4 billion IPO on Wall Street in June 2021, regulators banned Didi from app stores in mainland China and launched an investigation into its handling of customer data. They accused Didi of breaking privacy laws and posing cybersecurity risks. Their actions were also widely seen as punishment for the company’s decision to go public overseas instead of in China. The regulatory actions wiped tens of billions of dollars from Didi’s market capitalization and hit its domestic business. Under pressure from Beijing, Didi announced in late 2021 that it would start the process of delisting from the New York Stock Exchange and pivot to Hong Kong. People walk past the headquarters of the Chinese ride-hailing service Didi in Beijing, China, December 3, 2021. Thomas Peter/Reuters China fines Didi $1.2 billion for violating cybersecurity and data laws Last July, China’s cyberspace regulator fined Didi just over 8 billion yuan ($1.2 billion) for violating cybersecurity and data laws. The lifting of a ban on new users comes after Beijing signaled the softening of its stance on the country’s tech industry. Earlier this month, a top official said the government’s crackdown on the fintech operations of more than a dozen internet companies was “basically” over. That remark came on the same day Chinese billionaire Jack Ma gave up control of Ant Group after the fintech giant’s shareholders agreed to restructure its business. China’s crackdown on its biggest tech companies began in 2020 with new regulations on fintech, which forced Ma’s Ant Group to suspend its $37 billion IPO days before its launch. Regulators then targeted a number of other tech giants, including Tencent, Meituan and Didi. But the Chinese economy is faltering because of the country’s stringent Covid restrictions, which ended in early December, and a historic property downturn. Policymakers have pledged to go all out this year to save the economy, betting on the private sector to bolster growth and boost domestic demand. Ad Feedback More from CNN Business Netflix Netflix plans its biggest-ever slate of Korean content Jan 17, 2023 Gabby Jones/Bloomberg/Getty Images Are you a restaurant worker who recently came back to the industry? Tell us about it Jan 16, 2023 Ad Feedback CNN Business Videos •Video France's national dish is under threat. Hear why one baker is speaking out Jan 16, 2023 •Video CNN 'Glass Onion' actress talks about the challenge of her role Jan 16, 2023 •Video CNN Janelle Monáe reveals a 'Glass Onion' spoiler on CNN Jan 16, 2023 •Video Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images Biden wants the wealthiest 1% to 'begin to pay their fair share' (2021) Jan 16, 2023 Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Audio Live TV Follow CNN Business Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2023 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
