Title: Musk: Instagram Makes People Depressed and Twitter Makes Them Angry
Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2023 09:24:00 GMT
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/elon-musk-instagram-depressed-twitter-angry-2023-1
Content: Musk: Instagram Makes People Depressed and Twitter Makes Them Angry Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines. Search icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, "Click to perform a search". Insider logo The word "Insider". 0 Newsletters Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. Log in Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. Subscribe Business The word Business Life The word Life News The word News Reviews The word Reviews Business Tech Finance Markets Strategy Retail Advertising Healthcare Premium Life Entertainment Culture Travel Food Health Parenting Beauty Style News Politics Military & Defense Sports Opinion Reviews Tech Streaming Home Kitchen Style Beauty Gifts Deals Pets Parenting Coupons Health Learning Hobbies & Crafts Travel All A-Z Advertising Business Careers Coupons DoorDash Walmart Dell Staples Under Armour Culture Design Entertainment Executive Lifestyle Finance Food Health Healthcare Intelligence Latest Life Markets Insider Media Military & Defense News Opinion People Personal Finance Banking Credit Cards Insurance Investing Loans Mortgages Politics Premium Retail Reviews Science Sports Strategy Tech Transportation Travel TV Beauty Explorers Best in Town Bonkers Closets Festival Foodies Movies Insider Pop Culture Decoded The Making Of The Ultimate List Featured Talent Insider About About Advertise Careers Code of Ethics Contact Us Corporate Corrections Policy Follow RSS Sitemap Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Subscriptions Intelligence Premium US Markets Loading... H M S In the news Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification. Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. HOMEPAGE 0 Newsletters Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. Log in Subscribe Home Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. Tech Elon Musk says Instagram makes people depressed and Twitter makes them angry Beatrice Nolan 2023-01-16T12:24:45Z Save Article Icon A bookmark Facebook Icon The letter F. Email icon An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email. Share icon An curved arrow pointing right. Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting. Twitter LinkedIn icon The word "in". LinkedIn Fliboard icon A stylized letter F. Flipboard Facebook Icon The letter F. Facebook Email icon An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email. Email Link icon An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url. Copy Link Read in app Elon Musk said on Twitter that he thought Instagram made people depressed. Bill Pugliano/Getty Images Elon Musk says Instagram makes people depressed and Twitter makes them angry. On Sunday, the Twitter CEO asked his followers which platform was better. Musk has expressed his reservations about Instagram before. Sign up for our newsletter for the latest tech news and scoops — delivered daily to your inbox. Loading Something is loading. Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address By clicking ‘Sign up’, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider as well as other partner offers and accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Twitter's CEO, Elon Musk, says Instagram makes people depressed and Twitter makes them angry.On Sunday, Musk asked his Twitter followers which platform was better, tweeting: "Instagram makes people depressed & Twitter makes people angry. Which is better?"One Twitter account replied that Twitter doesn't make them angry but makes them laugh. Musk responded by saying he does laugh a lot on Twitter. Musk has expressed his reservations about Instagram before. Appearing on The Joe Rogan Experience podcast in 2018, Musk said that one of the issues with social media is that "people look like they have a much better life than they really do." Musk said on the podcast that Instagram can make people seem better-looking and happier "than they really are." He added that seeing attractive and happy people on social media can make people think, "I'm not that good looking and I'm not that happy. So I must suck."Representatives for Musk did not immediately reply to Insider's request for further comment.Musk, who bought Twitter for $44 billion last year, has also been wondering if people should use social media less. In response to a Twitter user who shared a 2021 study by the Survey Center on American Life that found people's social circles had shrunk in the last three decades, Musk said: "Maybe we should spend less time on social media … ?" Sign up for notifications from Insider! Stay up to date with what you want to know. Subscribe to push notifications Read next NOW WATCH: OPINION: Media activist shares how Musk could change Twitter Elon Musk Twitter Musk More... Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification. Recommended Video Follow us on: * Copyright © 2023 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service , Privacy Policy and Cookies Policy . Contact Us Sitemap Disclaimer Accessibility Commerce Policy Advertising Policies CA Privacy Rights Coupons Made in NYC Jobs @ Insider Stock quotes by finanzen.net Reprints & Permissions International Editions: United States US International INTL Asia AS Deutschland & Österreich AT Deutschland DE España ES India IN Japan JP México MX Netherlands NL Polska PL South Africa ZA
