Title: NY's Kathy Hochul silent on '$306B' Penn Station redevelopment plan in State of the State address
Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2023 21:31:00 GMT
URL: https://nypost.com/2023/01/16/nys-kathy-hochul-silent-on-33b-penn-station-redevelopment-plan-in-state-of-the-state-address/
Content: NY's Kathy Hochul silent on '$306B' Penn Station redevelopment plan in State of the State address Primary Menu Sections Search Search Skip to search results News Metro Page Six Sports NFL MLB NBA NHL College Football College Basketball Post Sports+ Sports Betting Business Opinion Entertainment Fashion & Beauty Shopping Lifestyle Real Estate Media Tech Health Travel Astrology Video Photos Visual Stories Sub Menu 1 Covers Columnists Horoscopes Sports Odds Podcasts Careers Sub menu 2 Email Newsletters Official Store Home Delivery Tips Search Email New York Post January 17, 2023 Search Search Recommended Skip to main content Steve Cuozzo Business realty check FacebookTwitter Flipboard WhatsAppEmailCopy NY’s Kathy Hochul silent on ‘$306B’ Penn Station redevelopment plan in State of the State address By Steve Cuozzo Social Links for Steve Cuozzo View Author Archive email the author follow on twitter Get author RSS feed Contact The Author Name(required) Email(required) Comment(required) Submit Δ Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission. Back to Reading January 16, 2023 4:31pm Updated January 16, 2023 10:14pm Gov. Kathy Hochul wants to demolish several blocks of supposedly "blighted" properties in the Penn Station/Madison Square Garden area to make room for eight giant office towers. Steve Sanchez/Pacific Press/Shutterstock More From: Steve Cuozzo Canadian wealth management firm signs major lease at 101 Park Ave. Huge downtown deals fuel strong fourth quarter for Manhattan retail scene This beloved Midtown institution has become the worst restaurant in NYC Nonprofit CompletePlayground settles in FiDi, signs 15-year lease REBNY gala to return to seated affair in 2023 Gov. Kathy Hochul left her Penn Station-area redevelopment proposal — which would cost $306 billion to fully build — out of her State of the State address, heartening critics who want a less costly and less destructive way to create a new station. The Penn scheme didn’t appear, either, in the governor’s 267-page, “Achieving the New York Dream” agenda featuring “147 bold initiatives” that was released in conjunction with the speech. The “Dream” list included many transit and MTA-related projects such as the Metro-North Penn Station Access project to build new stations in the Bronx. Since the whole point of the so-called “Empire Station Complex” is supposedly to create a better Penn Station, its omission from Hochul’s agenda was curious. Lawyer Chuck Weinstock, who represents neighborhood groups and others opposed to the proposal, quipped, “She might be the only person in the state who isn’t talking about it. Maybe she’s beginning to understand that nobody wants this thing.” Hochul spokesman Justin Henry didn’t address why she didn’t mention the project in the speech or the “Dream” report. He said, “The reconstruction of Penn Station is a priority of the Hochul administration as reflected in the aggressive timetable for reconstruction and the continued, sustained progress on this project since Governor Hochul took office.” The plan which she inherited from her predecessor Andrew Cuomo would demolish several blocks of supposedly “blighted” properties in the Penn Station/Madison Square Garden area, including occupied apartment buildings and historic churches, to make room for eight giant office towers, most to be built by Vornado Realty Trust. Architect Alexandros Washburn’s proposal for an above-ground gateway to Penn Station. Another rendering of Washburn’s plan to be discussed at a Jan. 26 forum. But its prospects dimmed after Vornado chairman and Penn-area developer Steven Roth’s recent remark that the time wasn’t right for new ground-up-development. The latest black eye was the revelation, reported in Crain’s, that the Empire State Development agency approved it without even looking at cost and revenue estimates by Ernst & Young, which ESD hired to crunch the numbers. Weinstock called the state’s admission that it ignored the data “damning.” A trio of architects will show alternative plans for Penn Station on Jan. 26 at Cooper Union. Meanwhile, a trio of distinguished architects will show alternative plans on Jan. 26 at Cooper Union. They are PAU firm head Vishaan Chakrabarti, independent architect Alexandros Washburn and Atelier and Co. principal Richard Cameron. A design by the Grand Penn Community Alliance with architectural advisor Washburn was first shown in The Post in December. On a lighter note, a different Crain’s story on a court case involving the project dug up e-mails between ESD, Vornado and their spin doctors at two different P.R. firms over how to water down The Post’s “negative” coverage. “We think we have [Steve Cuozzo] positioned” to report one story I was working on as merely “battle lines being drawn,” an unidentified person at P.R. firm Berlin Rosen gloated to Vornado suits and former ESD official Holly Leicht in August 2021. My position since then: I’ve characterized Hochul’s plan as “a boondoggle,” “terrible,” “corrupt,” “fraudulent” and “a nightmare.” Share this article: FacebookTwitter Flipboard WhatsAppEmailCopy Filed under development kathy hochul penn station realty check 1/16/23 Read Next Canadian wealth management firm signs major lease at 101 P... what to shop now The 50 best Valentine's Day gifts on Amazon in 2023, from apparel to cozy items Here's the full squeeze on the best juice cleanses of 2023 We ordered and reviewed 21 different meal kit brands for 2023 You'll *fall in love* with these 60 Valentine’s Day gifts for everyone on your list in 2023 11 best rowing machines to upgrade your home gym in 2023, per experts Columnists Steve Cuozzo Hochul silent on '$306B' Penn Station redevelopment plan in State of the State address Charles Gasparino Boardroom activism will cause tremendous grief for Disney's Bob Iger Jennifer Gould 'Magic mushroom' gets high praise from Le Bernardin chef Eric Ripert See All Columnists Trending Now in Business This story has been shared 8,527 times. 8,527 Home Depot soon changing how it pays hourly employees This story has been shared 2,252 times. 2,252 Oil tycoon lost billions with Enron, invested with Madoff, and struck out with FTX This story has been shared 1,675 times. 1,675 Hochul silent on '$306B' Penn Station redevelopment plan in State of the State address Now on Page Six Angela Yee wants former classmate Lauryn Hill as a guest on her show Graceland will go to Lisa Marie Presley’s three daughters Al Roker’s Tesla refuses to work properly, again See All Video Brian Daboll on preparing to face the Eagles for the third time More Stories Page Six Christina Applegate and daughter, 11, match at Critics Choice Awards NYPost Jeremy Renner's snow plow injuries 'worse than anyone knows': report Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Email YouTube Sections & Features News Metro Sports Sports Betting Business Opinion Entertainment Fashion & Beauty Shopping Lifestyle Real Estate Media Tech Health Travel Astrology Video Photos Visual Stories Alexa Covers Horoscopes Sports Odds Podcasts Columnists Classifieds Post Sports+ Subscribe Articles Manage Newsletters & Feeds Email Newsletters RSS Feeds NY Post Official Store Home Delivery Subscribe Manage Subscription Delivery Help Help/Support About New York Post Customer Service App FAQ & Help Community Guidelines Contact Us Tips Newsroom Letters to the Editor Reprints Careers Apps iPhone App iPad App Android Phone Android Tablet Advertise Self Service Media Kit Contact © 2023 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved Terms of Use Membership Terms Privacy Notice Sitemap Your California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information Share Link click to copy
