Title: An Average 1,600 Tech Jobs Have Been Axed Every Day of 2023 so Far
Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2023 06:18:00 GMT
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/tech-workers-laid-off-every-day-january-recession-downturn-2023-1
Content: An Average 1,600 Tech Jobs Have Been Axed Every Day of 2023 so Far Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines. Search icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, "Click to perform a search". Insider logo The word "Insider". 0 Newsletters Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. Log in Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. Subscribe Business The word Business Life The word Life News The word News Reviews The word Reviews Business Tech Finance Markets Strategy Retail Advertising Healthcare Premium Life Entertainment Culture Travel Food Health Parenting Beauty Style News Politics Military & Defense Sports Opinion Reviews Tech Streaming Home Kitchen Style Beauty Gifts Deals Pets Parenting Coupons Health Learning Hobbies & Crafts Travel All A-Z Advertising Business Careers Coupons DoorDash Walmart Dell Staples Under Armour Culture Design Entertainment Executive Lifestyle Finance Food Health Healthcare Intelligence Latest Life Markets Insider Media Military & Defense News Opinion People Personal Finance Banking Credit Cards Insurance Investing Loans Mortgages Politics Premium Retail Reviews Science Sports Strategy Tech Transportation Travel TV Beauty Explorers Best in Town Bonkers Closets Festival Foodies Movies Insider Pop Culture Decoded The Making Of The Ultimate List Featured Talent Insider About About Advertise Careers Code of Ethics Contact Us Corporate Corrections Policy Follow RSS Sitemap Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Subscriptions Intelligence Premium US Markets Loading... H M S In the news Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification. Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. HOMEPAGE 0 Newsletters Account icon An icon in the shape of a person's head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. Log in Subscribe Home Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. Tech An average 1,600 tech workers have been laid off every day of 2023 so far Huileng Tan 2023-01-16T09:18:57Z Save Article Icon A bookmark Facebook Icon The letter F. Email icon An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email. Share icon An curved arrow pointing right. Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting. Twitter LinkedIn icon The word "in". LinkedIn Fliboard icon A stylized letter F. Flipboard Facebook Icon The letter F. Facebook Email icon An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email. Email Link icon An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url. Copy Link Download the app Laid-off employee Getty images/ skaman306 On an average, at least 1,600 tech sector workers have been laid off every day of 2023 so far, per Layoffs.fyi. That's as 91 tech companies globally have axed 24,151 jobs, just 15 days into 2023. 1,023 tech companies laid off 154,256 workers in 2022, per data aggregated by Layoffs.fyi. Sign up for our newsletter for the latest tech news and scoops — delivered daily to your inbox. Loading Something is loading. Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address By clicking ‘Sign up’, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider as well as other partner offers and accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Layoffs in the tech sector show no signs of abating — on an average, about 1,600 workers have gotten the pink slip every day in 2023 so far, according to tracking site Layoffs.fyi.That's as 91 tech companies globally have already laid off 24,151 workers just 15 days into 2023, according to data aggregated by Layoffs.ai. This is already about 15% of the 154,256 workers who were laid off by over a thousand tech companies in 2022.Amazon, Meta, and Salesforce top Layoffs.fyi's list with about 18,000, 11,000, and 8,000 staffers laid-off, respectively, between November 2022 and January 2023.The layoffs at Amazon primarily affected those in corporate roles, including those in the company's Devices and Books businesses and human resource department, Insider's Samantha Delouya reported on January 5. Meta cut positions across the company, including its Reality Labs division overseeing metaverse initiatives, while Salesforce's headcount reduction hit the Slack and MuleSoft business units. The rash of layoffs — which started last year — came after tech companies hired and expanded aggressively during the pandemic. But they started conducting widespread layoffs in late 2022, as earnings weakened across the board amid fears of an impending recession. This also spilled over into 2023. Amazon and Salesforce announced in the first week of the year they were collectively cutting over 25,000 jobs. Other tech companies that have slashed headcount include media company Vimeo and supply chain software firm Flexport.And it's not just the tech sector that's laying off staff either.Last week, banking giant Goldman Sachs started laying off 3,000 employees globally as dealmaking slows. BlackRock, the world's largest asset management firm, is also slashing up to 500 roles for the first time in four years. Marc Benioff, Salesforce's CEO, attempted to explain his company's rationale for the downsizing in his memo to staff, saying: "as our revenue accelerated through the pandemic, we hired too many people leading into this economic downturn we're now facing, and I take responsibility for that." Sign up for notifications from Insider! Stay up to date with what you want to know. Subscribe to push notifications Read next NOW WATCH: Tech Layoffs Careers More... Close icon Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification. Recommended Video Follow us on: * Copyright © 2023 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service , Privacy Policy and Cookies Policy . Contact Us Sitemap Disclaimer Accessibility Commerce Policy Advertising Policies CA Privacy Rights Coupons Made in NYC Jobs @ Insider Stock quotes by finanzen.net Reprints & Permissions International Editions: United States US International INTL Asia AS Deutschland & Österreich AT Deutschland DE España ES India IN Japan JP México MX Netherlands NL Polska PL South Africa ZA
