Title: Good Samaritan Society announces plan to downsize
Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2023 16:00:13 GMT
URL: https://www.keloland.com/keloland-com-original/good-samaritan-society-announces-plan-to-downsize/
Content: Good Samaritan Society announces plan to downsize Skip to content KELOLAND.com Sign Up Sponsored By Toggle Menu Open Navigation Close Navigation Search Please enter a search term. Primary Menu News Local News Capitol News Bureau KELOLAND.com Originals Agriculture Automotive News Coronavirus Eye on KELOLAND HealthBeat Investigates MMIP in South Dakota Politics from The Hill National & World News Positively KELOLAND Press Releases South Dakota Legislative Session South Dakota Marijuana Your Local Election Headquarters Your Money Matters Top Stories Pickleball tour group makes stop at Sanford Pentagon 9 hours ago Video First NHL goal for player born in South Dakota 9 hours ago Video New XXB.1.5 covid variant spreading quickly 9 hours ago Video Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebrated in Sioux Falls 9 hours ago Video Weather KELOLAND Weather Radar Live Cam Closeline Submit A Closing Weather Alerts WeatherNow Stream KELOLAND Live Doppler HD Storm Center Storm Tracker App Rain Gauge Drought Sports SportsZone Scoreboard The KELO Cup SDSU Jackrabbits USD Coyotes Top Stories SDSU looks to ride momentum, USD seeks growth following … Video Top Stories Monday Scoreboard – January 16 Top Stories Dell Rapids runs past Parker on Monday 4 hours ago Video Prescott outshines Brady, Cowboys dominate Buccaneers … 3 hours ago First NHL goal for player born in South Dakota 9 hours ago Video Luverne native named Cardinals General Manager 4 hours ago Video Watch Video Center Watch Newscasts KELOLAND WeatherNow Program Schedule CBS News Live Feed KELOXTRA CW of the Black Hills KELOLAND Living Arts & Crafts Show Book Club Watch KELOLAND Living Host Chat Across The Table Business Beat Do It Yourself Recipes Be Our Guest BestReviews BestReviews Daily Deals Be On The Show Our Team KELOLAND Living Golf Tour KELOLAND Living Newsletter Top Stories WilLiquors non-alcoholic cocktails for dry January Video Top Stories Paw Patrol Live! The Great Pirate Adventure 4 days ago Video Life’s too short to eat a bad casserole 4 days ago Video Emily’s Hope Art Auction battles the opioid epidemic 3 days ago Video Smart phone photography tips 4 days ago Video Employment Automall Community Buy Local Classifieds Contests Continuing the conversation Events Calendar Gas Prices KELOLAND Pets Obituaries Remarkable Women Tradition Of Caring Lottery Horoscopes About Contact Us uShare Our History Our People Captain 11 KELOLAND Careers Regional News Partners Sign Up For Newsletters Advertise With Us Online Services About BestReviews Do Not Sell My Personal Information Search Please enter a search term. KELOLAND.com Original Good Samaritan Society announces plan to downsize by: Eric Mayer Posted: Jan 16, 2023 / 10:00 AM CST Updated: Jan 16, 2023 / 12:04 PM CST by: Eric Mayer Posted: Jan 16, 2023 / 10:00 AM CST Updated: Jan 16, 2023 / 12:04 PM CST SHARE SIOUX FALLS, S.D. (KELO) — A large provider of nursing homes and skilled nursing throughout the county has announced plans to downsize operations. Sioux Falls-based Good Samaritan Society, which operates skilled nursing facilities in 22 different states, announced last week in an email to employees plans to consolidate operations to seven states. “A consolidation footprint will best enable us to focus resources and investments to continue to strengthen our quality of care and services and meet the comprehensive and evolving needs of our seniors,” said Good Samaritan Society President and CEO Nate Schema in the letter. According to Schema’s letter, 70% of the residents served by GSS live in the seven states it plans to focus on. Those states are South Dakota, North Dakota, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, Kansas and Colorado. You can read Schema’s letter to employees below. The plan is to sell the other facilities in the 15 other states to other operators. According to Skilled Nursing News, Idaho-based Cascadia Healthcare is poised to acquire 10 former GSS facilities. “Until transitions are complete in each location, these employees, residents and clients will see no changes in their day-to-day experience,” Schema said. In 2022, GSS announced planes to close its nursing home facility in Lennox as well as locations in Clear Lake, S.D. and Newell, Iowa. On the Sanford Careers website, there’s a 121 GSS job openings near Sioux Falls and 266 job openings near South Dakota. This announcement comes four years after GSS merged with Sanford Health. Sanford Health has announced talks have started for a possible merger with Fairview Health. More public meetings coming on proposed Sanford/Fairview merger GSS isn’t the only nursing home provider struggling as 13 nursing homes have closed in South Dakota is the past five years. According to Mark B. Deak, Executive Director of South Dakota Health Care Association, 13 nursing homes in South Dakota have closed during the last five years. ”Two more recently announced they will be closing in the coming weeks (Elk Point and Arlington), which will bring the total to 15 closures. What had been a crisis is now becoming a catastrophe,” Deak said an email to KELOLAND News. In a statement sent to KELOLAND News, Schema said Good Sam cherishes its responsibility to care and support people and communities. “As part of a leading integrated health system, the Good Samaritan Society has an unprecedented opportunity to shape the future of senior care and services – allowing us to reimagine how care is delivered at every stage of life,” Schema said in an emailed statement. “Our consolidated footprint will best enable us to focus resources and investments to continue to strengthen quality of care and meet the comprehensive and evolving needs of our seniors and communities. Since our integration with Sanford Health in 2019, we’ve harnessed new ways of working together to better serve our people. We are committed to continuing to pursue these unique, transformative opportunities to enhance the health care experience and ensure seniors have access to the care and services they need and deserve close to home.” Copyright 2023 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Best elliptical machine Fitness Equipment / 3 mins ago Here’s everything you need to know to find the right elliptical for your home. We’re even sharing a few of our favorite models at the end. Best rowing machine Fitness Equipment / 13 mins ago Rowing machines simulate a realistic on-the-water rowing experience. Find the right rowing machine with help from this buying guide. Tips to stay healthy this flu season Health & Wellness / 6 mins ago Continue your flu-free streak with these tips to stay healthy this flu season. View All BestReviews Top Stories SDSU looks to ride momentum, USD seeks growth Monday Scoreboard – January 16 Dell Rapids runs past Parker on Monday Cowboys dominate Buccaneers in Wild Card round The reality of drag shows from two queens Top Stories More Stories Hockey Day South Dakota Sioux Falls could hit 5,000 loads of snow Barbara Walters dies at 93 A special delivery for Sanford Children’s Hospital Brewery uses barrels to build beer Running for a cause More Stories KELOLAND.com Video The reality of drag shows from two queens 5 hours ago Queen Bee Club jackpot grows and The Banquet wins 5 hours ago Families volunteer on Martin Luther King Junior Day 5 hours ago A look at how much water we have seen this winter 9 hours ago Pickleball tour group makes stop at Sanford Pentagon 9 hours ago Pickleball tour group makes stop at Sanford Pentagon 9 hours ago First NHL goal for player born in South Dakota 9 hours ago New XXB.1.5 covid variant spreading quickly 9 hours ago Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebrated in Sioux Falls 9 hours ago Wind Cave National Park offers free tours for MLK … 10 hours ago Good Samaritan downsizing; Wintry mix today; Celebrating … 11 hours ago Vinny Vidi Vici on popular drag 15 hours ago More Videos More from KELOLAND.com Experts see ‘desperation’ in ‘flailing’ Putin’s war … A look at how much water we have seen this winter Pickleball tour group makes stop at Sanford Pentagon First NHL goal for player born in South Dakota New XXB.1.5 covid variant spreading quickly Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebrated in Sioux Falls Wind Cave National Park offers free tours for MLK … Luverne native named Cardinals General Manager More from KELOLAND.com no iframe support! See Full Weather Forecast Trending Stories New XXB.1.5 covid variant spreading quickly S.D. child-support proposal has been revised First NHL goal for player born in South Dakota 44-year-old Watertown man arrested for sex crimes Aberdeen police warn of scam calls Don't Miss! Alaska & Glacier Bay Cruise Don't Miss / 1 hour ago Win Tickets to see Alabama! Contests / 1 week ago Win Suite Tickets to Toughest Monster Trucks! Contests / 2 weeks ago KELOLAND Pro Football Challenge Contests / 5 months ago Your Guide To Coronavirus KELOLAND.com Original / 3 years ago KELOLAND Investigates Don't Miss / 12 months ago View All Don't Miss KELOLAND Local News and Weather Follow Us News App Get the iOS app Get the Android app from Google Play Weather App Get the iOS Weather app Get the Android Weather app from Google Play Local News KELOLAND.com Original Weather Sports Investigates Capitol News Bureau Your Money Matters HealthBeat NewsNation Now KELOLAND Living Advertise With Us Advertising Terms and Conditions EEO Public File FCC Public File Information Privacy Policy Terms Of Use Covers FCC Applications Public File Assistance Contact The Hill NewsNation BestReviews Content Licensing Nexstar Digital Journalistic Integrity Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information © 1998 - 2023 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ × Close Ad
