Title: The steep plunge in used car prices -- what it means, and what's ahead | CNN Business
Date: Tue, 17 Jan 2023 08:00:00 GMT
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2023/01/16/business/used-car-prices/index.html
Content: The steep plunge in used car prices -- what it means, and what's ahead | CNN Business CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos More Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Follow CNN Business US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2020 Election Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Video Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Markets DOW S&P 500 NASDAQ Fear & Greed Index ----- is driving the US market Latest Market News China posts one of its worst economic performances in decades because of Covid China records first population decline in 60 years The steep plunge in used car prices -- what it means, and what's ahead Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later. The steep plunge in used car prices – what it means, and what’s ahead By Chris Isidore, CNN Business Updated 3:00 AM EST, Tue January 17, 2023 Link Copied! Video Ad Feedback Lack of new cars is lifting used car prices 02:28 - Source: CNNBusiness Top business news 14 videos Video Ad Feedback Lack of new cars is lifting used car prices 02:28 Now playing - Source: CNNBusiness Video Ad Feedback Layoffs are making headlines. What's really going on in the job market 01:41 Now playing - Source: CNN Business Video Ad Feedback Why small business owners may not feel inflation ease 02:39 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Is housing a buyer's market or a seller's market? CEO explains why it's neither 02:40 Now playing - Source: CNN Business Video Ad Feedback Facebook could soon reinstate Trump. Two former senior staffers debate the decision 03:03 Now playing - Source: CNN Business Video Ad Feedback Your questions about a possible gas stove ban, answered 04:22 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Powell explains why the Fed will not 'promote a greener economy' 01:54 Now playing - Source: CNN Business Video Ad Feedback Nurse on staffing shortages: 'It's not only physically toxic, it's mentally toxic' 01:58 Now playing - Source: CNN Business Video Ad Feedback Congress passed new retirement savings rules. Here's what they mean for you 01:27 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Watch this color changing BMW in action 02:20 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Here's what school protocols Bill Gates thinks didn't work during pandemic 04:16 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Artificial Intelligence can write as well as humans. See how it works 03:36 Now playing - Source: CNN Business Video Ad Feedback She feels unsafe at her fast food job. Could a fast food council help? 02:55 Now playing - Source: CNNBusiness Video Ad Feedback Her ex-boyfriend stalked her using an AirTag. Now, she's suing Apple 03:01 Now playing - Source: CNN See More Videos New York CNN — Tracking used car prices is enough to give anyone whiplash. Since the start of the pandemic and the resulting disruptions to new car supply chains first sent prices soaring, used car prices posted their largest annual increase on record – up 45% in the 12 months ending in June 2021, according to the Consumer Price Index – before swinging to a 12-month drop of 8.8% in the most recent reading for December. That was the biggest 12-month plunge in prices for used cars since June 2009, when General Motors and Chrysler were both in bankruptcy proceedings and the economy was hemorrhaging a half-million jobs a month. “It was a completely wild ride,” said Ivan Drury, director of insights at Edmunds.com Inc., an online resources for inventory and information on cars. Video Ad Feedback 'Outrageous' used car prices amid highest inflation in 13 years 02:29 - Source: CNNBusiness Data from Edmunds shows the average price of a used car purchase in December at $29,533, down nearly $1,600 from the record high of $31,095 reached in April 2022. Today’s average used car price is about the same as the average new car price as recently as 2010. While the prices of late model used cars are down only 5% off their peak according according to Edmunds, the price of older used cars, those five years or older, have fallen 15% or more from their peaks early in 2022. Experts say reasons for the decline include higher interest rates that make it more expensive to finance a car purchase, limiting demand. CarMax (KMX), the nation’s largest pure used car dealer, has warned that the combination of high prices and high interest rates is creating an affordability problem for many buyers, hurting overall demand. Increased inventory pushing down prices But the leading reason for the drop in used car prices is the increased supply of new cars. It was the lack of new car inventory that drove up prices. Parts shortages, especially for computer chips, had choked off production of new cars in much of 2022, causing the lowest level of full-year US new car sales since 2011. The low supply of new cars caused an even bigger jump in the average price of used cars, as buyers who would otherwise buy new vehicles turned to the used car market. “At one point it seemed that everyone who was going to buy new ended up buying used,” said Greg Markus, executive vice president of AutoLenders, parent company of New Jersey’s largest used car dealership chain. Video Ad Feedback GM is launching a used car marketplace 03:09 - Source: CNNBusiness That included rental car companies, which before the pandemic normally bought about 10% or more new cars per year. With limited inventory of cars to sell, automakers essentially stopped making lower-priced fleet sales, and even rental car companies were forced to turn to the used car market. All that has started to change in recent months. Automakers are reporting more supplies of the chips they need, and are producing and selling more cars, including a return of fleet sales. Overall, sales were up 9% in the fourth quarter compared to a year ago, and nearly 6% higher than in the third quarter, according to Cox Automotive. And with more buyers finding the new cars they want, that means lower demand for used cars. Experts say part of the decline in used car prices is that the price increases were not sustainable and were partly driven by buyers at used car auctions overpaying for the limited supply of used vehicles. “There was nowhere for these prices to go but down,” said Markus. There could be more declines in used car prices in the months ahead, as new car inventories continue to build. One thing that could put a floor under the used car prices: late model used cars will likely be in short supply given the reduced new car production over the last three years. “The supply issue is still grim,” said Markus. Because of that, “I don’t think we’re getting down to 2019 levels,” he added. COLMA, CA - JULY 25: A Chevrolet Malibu is displayed at a Chevrolet dealership on July 25, 2018 in Colma, California. General Motors lowered its profit forecasts citing higher steel and aluminum costs due to tariffs imposed by the Trump administration. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) Justin Sullivan/Getty Images GM is the top car seller in America, retaking the title from Toyota The run-up in used car prices was a major driver in the nation’s overall inflation rate, adding about a full percentage point to the overall increase in consumer prices from April of 2021 through May of 2022. Now it’s a factor helping to bring down the pace of inflation, shaving more than a third of a point off the overall rate in December. This is obviously good news for those wanting or needing to buy a used car, though it can have a negative effect on car buyers by reducing the value of vehicle they hope to trade in. Edmunds shows the average trade-in value in December down nearly $3,000, or 11%, to $22,605, from the record high hit in June of 2022. That drop in the value of trade-ins could also be a headwind on car prices by reducing what buyers are able to pay. Ad Feedback More from CNN Business Netflix Netflix plans its biggest-ever slate of Korean content Jan 17, 2023 Gabby Jones/Bloomberg/Getty Images Are you a restaurant worker who recently came back to the industry? Tell us about it Jan 16, 2023 Ad Feedback CNN Business Videos •Video France's national dish is under threat. Hear why one baker is speaking out Jan 16, 2023 •Video CNN 'Glass Onion' actress talks about the challenge of her role Jan 16, 2023 •Video CNN Janelle Monáe reveals a 'Glass Onion' spoiler on CNN Jan 16, 2023 •Video Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images Biden wants the wealthiest 1% to 'begin to pay their fair share' (2021) Jan 16, 2023 Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Audio Live TV Follow CNN Business Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2023 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
