Title: Former President of FTX US breaks silence, says SBF was insecure, volatile and spiteful, threatened to “destroy my professional reputation” | Kitco News
Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2023 21:58:00 GMT
URL: https://www.kitco.com/news/2023-01-16/Former-President-of-FTX-US-breaks-silence-says-SBF-was-insecure-volatile-and-spiteful-threatened-to-destroy-my-professional-reputation.html
Content: Former President of FTX US breaks silence, says SBF was insecure, volatile and spiteful, threatened to “destroy my professional reputation” | Kitco News Make Kitco Your Homepage Login Sign Up Refresh Page Home Buy/Sell Gold & Silver Bullion Coins and Bars Online Store Buy Gold & Silver Great Deals Gift Ideas Cool and Collectible Gold Gold Coins Gold Bars Silver Silver Coins Silver Rounds Silver Bars Platinum Platinum Coins Platinum Bars Palladium Rhodium Bullion Mints Kitco Pool VaultChain™ GOLD SILVER Sell Gold & Silver Coins and Bars Rhodium Products Kitco Pool Refining and Scrap VaultChain™ Gold VaultChain™ Silver Storage Programs Kitco AllocatedStorage Program IRA/RSP VaultChain™ Refining Services Jeweler Resources Reference Tables Refining and Scrap Institutional and Wholesale Services Customer Service Contact Us Shipping and Insurance Payments andCancellations Business Hours Retail Store Location Feedback FAQs My Kitco Account Open an Account Activate Online Profile Check Transaction Status Reset Password Promotional EmailsSign Up All Metal Quotes All Metal Quotes London Fix Prices Shanghai Gold Fix Precious Metals Prices Today Gold Price Today Silver Price Today Platinum Price Today Palladium Price Today Precious Metals Quotes by Currency Metals Futures Kitco Silver Base Metals Strategic Metals Text Quotes Free Web Quote Banners Charts & Data Charts & Data Live Charts Gold Silver Platinum Palladium Rhodium Technical Charts Gold Silver Platinum Palladium Free Charts on yourWeb Site Historical Charts & Data Gold Silver Platinum Palladium Rhodium London Fix Prices Market Fundamentals Gold Silver Free Web Quote Banners Interactive Charts Precious Metals Gold Silver Platinum Palladium Rhodium Base Metals Aluminum Copper Nickel Lead Zinc Currency Exchange Rates AUD BRL CAD CHF CNY EUR GBP HKD INR JPY MXN RUB ZAR Crypto Crypto Market Crypto News Markets Bitcoin Ethereum Binance Coin XRP Solana Cardano Dogecoin Avalanche Polkadot Shiba Inu Polygon Chainlink Uniswap Near Protocol Axie Infinity The Sandbox Decentraland Cosmos Fantom Theta Network Newsletters Signup RSS Advertise With Us Follow us on: Markets Markets Markets Overview Dow Nasdaq S&P 500 NYSE Gold VIX Most Active Stocks Mining Gold Silver Iron Base Metals Non-Ferrous Futures Metals Energies Grains Indices Softs Meats Rates Currencies Forex Major Rates Currency Converter Currency Cross Rates Cryptocurrencies Bitcoin Ethereum Litecoin Monero Ripple Dash Zcash Peercoin Namecoin Stocks Gainers& Losers Kitco Gold Index Metals Search Stocks News News Latest News Gold News AM-PM Roundup Economic News Exclusive Features Gold Survey Gold Outlook Kitco Focus Video News Off The Wire More News Crypto News Mining News Search News Newsletters Signup About Kitco NEWS RSS Feed Advertise With Us Follow us on: Commentaries Commentaries Analysis Jim Wyckoff Analytical Charts Where Are the Stops Forex Charts Commentator's Corner Contributed Commentaries CPM Group Newsletters Signup RSS Feed Advertise With Us Kitco Select Jonathan Da Silva Gary Wagner Todd 'Bubba' Horwitz Frank E. Holmes Phillip Streible Mickey Fulp David Erfle Mining Mining Mining News Video News Podcast Latest Press Releases Mining by Sector Gold Silver Iron Base-Metals Non-Ferrous Metals Futures Mining Stock Indices XAU NYSE Arca Gold BUGS JSE Gold TSX Gold Newsletters Signup RSS Feed Advertise With Us Follow us on: Gold Forum Gold Forum Gold Forum Login FAQ Today's Posts Membership Rules Mobile Apps Mobile Apps Kitco Applications Our applications are powerful, easy-to-use and available on all devices. Gold Live! iOS Gold Live! Android Gold Live! Android Widget Gold Live! Desktop Windows Taskbar Market Alerts Free tool to help with goldand silver buying and selling decisions My Alerts Account Open an Account ScrapIt! Real-time gold scrap value calculator for professionals iPhone • Android • Web Metalynx Calculate precious metaldimensions, weights and purity iPhone • Android Jeweler Resources Jeweler Resources Refining Services Reference Tables Melting Points DWT/Oz/Gram Conversion Gauge/Inch/mm Conversion Weight Comparison Metalynx Calculate precious metal dimensions, weights and purity ScrapIt! Real-time gold scrap value calculator for professionals About About About Kitco Who We Are What We Do Careers Media Center Contact Us Feedback Advertise With Us Sitemap Favorites: EDIT Online Store Buy from Kitco Great Deals! Cool and Collectible Bundle Products Gold Products Silver Products Platinum Products Palladium Products Rhodium Products Accessories Kitco Pool VaultChain ™ GOLD SILVER Storage Programs Kitco Allocated Storage Program IRA/RSP Royal Canadian Mint Prestige Account VaultChain™ Sell to Kitco Coins and Bars Rhodium Products Kitco Pool Refining and Scrap VaultChain™ Gold VaultChain™ Silver Refining Services Jeweler Resources Reference Tables Refining and Scrap Institutional and Wholesale Services Customer Service Contact Us Shipping and Insurance Payments andCancellations Business Hours Retail Store Location Feedback FAQs My Kitco Account Open an Account Activate Online Profile Check Transaction Status Reset Password Promotional Emails Sign Up All Metal Quotes London Fix Prices Precious Metals Quotes by Currency Metals Futures Kitco Silver Base Metals Strategic Metals Text Quotes Free Web Quote Banners Charts & Data Live Charts Gold Silver Platinum Palladium Rhodium Technical Charts Gold Silver Platinum Palladium Free Charts on your Web Site Historical Charts & Data Gold Silver Platinum Palladium Rhodium London Fix Prices Market Fundamentals Gold Silver Free Web Quote Banners Interactive Charts Precious Metals Gold Silver Platinum Palladium Rhodium Base Metals Aluminum Copper Nickel Lead Zinc Currency Exchange Rates AUD HKD BRL INR CAD JPY CHF MXN CNY RUB EUR ZAR GBP Crypto Market Crypto News Markets Bitcoin Ethereum Binance Coin XRP Solana Cardano Dogecoin Avalanche Polkadot Shiba Inu Polygon Chainlink Uniswap Near Protocol Axie Infinity The Sandbox Decentraland Cosmos Fantom Theta Network Newsletters Signup RSS Feed Advertise With Us Markets Market Overview Dow Nasdaq S&P 500 NYSE Gold VIX Most Active Stocks Forex Major Rates Currency Converter Currency Cross Rates Kitco Gold Index Mining Gold Silver Iron Base Metals Non-Ferrous Bitcoin Metals Futures Metals Energies Grains Indices Softs Meats Rates Currencies Stocks Gainers & Losers Search Stocks News Latest News Gold News AM-PM Roundup Economic News Exclusive Features Gold Survey Gold Outlook Kitco Focus Video news Off The Wire More News Crypto News Mining News Search News Newsletters Signup About Kitco NEWS RSS Feed Advertise With Us Commentaries Analysis Jim Wyckoff Analytical Charts Where Are the Stops Forex Charts Commentator's Corner Contributed Commentaries CPM Group Newsletters Signup RSS Feed Advertise With Us Kitco Select Jonathan Da Silva Gary Wagner Todd 'Bubba' Horwitz Frank E. Holmes Phillip Streible Mickey Fulp David Erfle Mining Mining News Video News Podcast Latest Press Releases Mining by Sector Gold Silver Iron Base-Metals Non-Ferrous Mining Stock Indices XAU NYSE Arca Gold BUGS JSE Gold TSX Gold Newsletters Signup RSS Feed Advertise With Us Gold Forum Gold Forum Login FAQ Today's Posts Membership Rules Mobile Apps Kcast Gold Live Free live gold price, charts, news iPhone iPad Android Android Widget Windows Phone 7 Blackberry Blackberry Playbook Windows Taskbar Desktop for Mac, PC or Windows Market Alerts Free tool for making buying and selling decisions My Alerts Account Open an Account ScrapIt! Real-time gold scrap value calculator for professionals iPhone Android Web Metalynx Calculate precious metal dimensions, weights and purity iPhone Blackberry Android Jeweler Resources Refining Services Reference Tables Melting Points DWT/Oz/Gram Conversion Gauge/Inch/mm Conversion Weight Comparison Metalynx ScrapIt! About About Kitco Who We Are What We Do Careers Media Center Contact Us Feedback Advertise With Us Sitemap You are in Home > News > Exclusive Features > Focus Focus Former President of FTX US breaks silence, says SBF was insecure, volatile and spiteful, threatened to “destroy my professional reputation” Ernest Hoffman Monday January 16, 2023 16:58 Kitco News Share this article: Editor's Note: With so much market volatility, stay on top of daily news! Get caught up in minutes with our speedy summary of today's must-read news and expert opinions. Sign up here! (Kitco News) - Brett Harrison, the former President of FTX US, chose to break his silence on Saturday, and the story he shared is the most personal and damning indictment of the behavior and character of former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried to date. Harrison was in a somewhat unique position within the FTX organization: Whereas many ‘senior’ executives at the exchange were actually twenty-somethings in their first leadership positions, he was an established professional before Bankman-Fried recruited him, and claims to have actually trained Sam at Jane Street. While virtually all those fledgling C-level executives were creatures of SBF’s insular compound in the Bahamas, Harrison was based in Berkeley, California. And while they ran a massive consortium of companies as interconnected as they were unregulated, using QuickBooks for accounting and chat for expense reports, he was tasked with building an exchange that would meet the requirements of U.S. regulators. But perhaps the biggest reason why Harrison is now the source of the first true insider account of FTX and SBF is the simplest: He left months before the whole structure imploded. And the reasons he quit foreshadow the other stories we’ve read in recent months, the ones contained in indictments of the legal type, in sworn testimony, and soon in court hearings. “I worked at FTX US for seventeen months,” Harrison said. “When my resignation was made public, those unfamiliar with my plans were surprised, and some questioned whether I’d been fired. It seemed as though I’d left a dream job abruptly after a very short tenure.” But Harrison said the dream job turned out to be anything but, and had devolved into “months of disputes over management practices at FTX.” He said Sam asked him to join FTX US “casually over text in late March 2021” after they’d barely kept in touch since their Jane Street days. “He seemed like a sensitive and intellectually curious person who cared about animals, and that endeared him to me.” “My first few months at FTX US were wonderful,” Harrison said. “I worked largely independently of Sam to grow a US-based team and foster a professional environment prepared for regulated businesses. The team was dedicated and productive. Customer feedback was positive. I was excited about the future.” However, Harrison said that after six months at FTX, “I began advocating strongly for establishing separation and independence for the executive, legal, and developer teams of FTX US, and Sam disagreed.” He said that “pronounced cracks began to form“ in his relationship with Bankman-Fried, who was accustomed to issuing unilateral decrees to FTX US from the Bahamas. “I saw in that early conflict his total insecurity and intransigence when his decisions were questioned, his spitefulness, and the volatility of his temperament,” Harrison said. “I realized he wasn’t who I remembered.” Harrison suspected addiction or mental health problems might have been partially to blame. “But I didn’t know Sam well enough personally or have any real time to reflect on the question,” he said. “I was in a business relationship with him, and he was making a number of decisions about running a business that I disagreed with.” He quickly discovered that disagreeing with Sam was a non-starter at FTX, especially when “his influence over the media, FTX’s partners, the venture capital industry, and the traditional finance industry was pervasive and unyielding.” In the months that followed, Harrison said, “I further argued for enacting a sensible hiring policy, for staffing FTX US with a C-suite of experienced officers, for transparent communication between Sam and FTX US leadership, for Gary Wang’s and Nishad Singh’s software development responsibilities to be formally identified and shared across a larger group, for the delegation of managerial responsibility and controls beyond Sam and Bahamas-based executives, and other important matters.” He said Sam’s reactions to his requests were completely unpredictable, and highly unprofessional. “He responded at times with dysregulated hostility, at times with gaslighting and manipulation, but ultimately chose to isolate me from communication on key decision-making.” After that, Harrison said he would find out about decisions impacting FTX US that were made without his input and behind his back. “It felt terrible,” he said, characterizing his state at the time as “desperate but trying hard not to show it.” In early April 2022, after 11 months at the company, Harrison claims he made a final attempt to address the issues. “I made a written formal complaint about what I saw to be the largest organizational problems inhibiting FTX’s future success,” he said. “I wrote that I would resign if the problems weren’t addressed.” The response from above was denial and devastation. “I was threatened on Sam’s behalf that I would be fired and that Sam would destroy my professional reputation. I was instructed to formally retract what I’d written and to deliver an apology to Sam that had been drafted for me.” Harrison wrote that this response left no doubt in his mind that he needed to leave, but a senior executive quitting abruptly “would be harmful to the company and my FTX US reports,” so he wound down his most pressing projects and left quietly, shifting his focus to a new startup. When FTX and Alameda imploded in November, dragging over 100 subsidiaries with them into bankruptcy including FTX US, he was stunned. “The information that is now in the public record – from indictments, complaints, guilty pleas, or otherwise – show facts that even now, after months, are difficult for me to assimilate into reality,” he said. Harrison thought the management and organizational issues he saw were those of a good-faith startup experiencing growing pains. “I never could have guessed that underlying these kinds of issues — which I’d seen at other more mature firms in my career and believed not to be fatal to business success — was multi-billion-dollar fraud.” Harrison said it’s now clear to him why things like independence and transparency with the seasoned professionals at FTX US, which seemed obvious and essential for good business, were anathema to Sam and his inner circle. “We have extensive professional networks, our own lines of communication with US regulators, and our own authority to speak to US media,” he said. “If any one of us had suspected let alone learned the truth, we would have reported them immediately.” Harrison wrote that since leaving FTX for his own company, the sticking point in his meetings with investors switched from deference to and fear of Sam - “Is FTX investing? Is Sam okay with you doing this? Do you mind if we confirm with him?" - to a kind of guilt-by-association: “We know you weren’t involved in what Sam and others did, but we can’t take on the PR risk of associating ourselves with FTX, no matter how capable you are or compelling your idea is.” He said he continues to weather “frenzied and baseless accusations” on social media, including “that my resignation could only mean I had knowledge of a criminal scheme […] Or that I’m seeking a plea deal even though I haven’t been accused of wrongdoing and am not a target in any investigation. Or that while at FTX US I colluded with Citadel to manipulate tokenized stock prices.” Harrison concluded by thanking those who chose to support him “through the most devastating and destabilizing event of my professional life.” The criminal trial of former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried is scheduled to begin in early October 2023. By Ernest Hoffman For Kitco News Follow @KitcoNewsNOW ehoffman@kitco.com www.kitco.com Disclaimer: The views expressed in this article are those of the author and may not reflect those of Kitco Metals Inc. The author has made every effort to ensure accuracy of information provided; however, neither Kitco Metals Inc. nor the author can guarantee such accuracy. This article is strictly for informational purposes only. It is not a solicitation to make any exchange in commodities, securities or other financial instruments. Kitco Metals Inc. and the author of this article do not accept culpability for losses and/ or damages arising from the use of this publication. new Today's Crypto Markets Bitcoin Ethereum XRP More crypto markets and news... Latest Articles News Video News Commentaries Former President of FTX US breaks silence, says SBF was insecure, volatile and spiteful, threatened to “destroy my professional reputation” Jan 16, 2023 04:58PM Mining giant Rio Tinto increases iron ore and copper production in 2022 Jan 16, 2023 04:56PM Oil holds in sight of recent highs on Chinese demand recovery hopes Jan 16, 2023 04:14PM Canadian govt approves James Bay lithium mine project in Quebec Jan 16, 2023 03:38PM Anglo Asian Mining reports 2022 production of 57,618 gold equivalent ounces in Azerbaijan Jan 16, 2023 02:43PM Q4-Q1 rally regains its mojo, led by the miners Jan 16, 2023 12:29PM Hawks and surprises Jan 16, 2023 11:52AM Traders bid stocks, gold, and Silver higher, but is the optimism warranted? Jan 13, 2023 07:06PM The Metals, Money, and Markets Weekly Jan. 13, 2023: Everything is turning to gold Jan 13, 2023 05:02PM How to protect and profit from your long gold and silver investments Jan 13, 2023 12:42PM Precious Metal Charts Gold Silver Platinum Palladium 24h 30D 60D 6M 1Y Interactive Chart Follow Kitco News Tweets by KitcoNewsNOW 3474658 2 //www.kitconet.com/ Kitco Home All Metal Quotes Charts & Data Markets News Commentaries Mining Connect About Us Kitco Media Careers Contact Us Advertise With Us Tools Kitco Gold Index Interactive Gold Chart Bitcoin in USD Currency Converter ScrapIt! Mobile Application Site Map Online Store Be Informed of our special offers, alerts and news. sign up We appreciate your feedback. Submit Visit Kitco Mobile Apps How can we help you? 1 877 775-4826 Drop us a line info@kitco.com Website Terms of Use | Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy
