Title: Local business bears pain of high egg prices | WANE 15
Date: Mon, 16 Jan 2023 23:20:45 GMT
URL: https://www.wane.com/top-stories/local-business-bears-pain-of-high-egg-prices/
Content: Local business bears pain of high egg prices | WANE 15 Skip to content WANE 15 Fort Wayne 50° Sign Up Fort Wayne 50° Sponsored By Toggle Menu Open Navigation Close Navigation Search Please enter a search term. Primary Menu News Coronavirus Local News 15 Finds Out Indiana Crime Entertainment National/World Positively Fort Wayne Your Local Election HQ Politics from The Hill Washington DC Bureau Traffic BestReviews BestReviews Daily Deals WANE Newsletters Automotive News Press Releases Top Stories Dog dies in heavy southeast FW house fire 5 hours ago Video Mom, kids die after “mental health crisis” 11 hours ago ‘My heart and soul’: Antiques on Broadway closing 10 hours ago Gallery NHC tracks ‘uncommon’ January disturbance in Atlantic 12 hours ago Watch Newscast Streaming Live Events Streaming Weather WANE 15 Forecast Weather Alerts Interactive Radar Webcams Closings and Delays Closings Sign-Up Form Weather Education Worksheets Sports High School Sports Team of the Week College Sports Komets TinCaps Mad Ants Sunday Spotlight Indianapolis Colts Comm. Calendar Living Local 15 Lifestyle Pet of the Week Be Our Guest Two-Minute Money Plan Medical Minute Be Loyal Buy Local Contests Free Friday Fun in the Fort Daily Pledge of Allegiance Lottery Horoscopes Living Local 15 At the Library TV Schedule First Birthdays Obituaries About Us Contact Us Information Report It Meet The Team Advertise With Us Regional News Partners Do Not Sell My Personal Information About BestReviews Jobs Find a Job Post a Job Work For Us Search Please enter a search term. Top Stories Local business bears pain of high egg prices by: Ethan Dahlen Posted: Jan 16, 2023 / 06:20 PM EST Updated: Jan 17, 2023 / 03:49 AM EST by: Ethan Dahlen Posted: Jan 16, 2023 / 06:20 PM EST Updated: Jan 17, 2023 / 03:49 AM EST SHARE FORT WAYNE, Ind. (WANE) – Egg prices have continued to climb into the new year, a trend that was established at the tail end of 2022. According to a report by the United States Department of Agriculture, the average carton of eggs in America was valued at about $4.25 last month. Per the report, that price was ‘238% higher than the $1.79 price set in December 2021.’ But the pain isn’t just felt when consumers are deciding whether or not they can skip eggs this week, it’s also hurting small businesses. “I use eggs in everything,” said John Scheele, the bookkeeper of Cindy’s Diner. The diner has been a Fort Wayne staple since 1952, surviving a recession and the housing market crash amongst other hardships. Scheele says this current egg surge will be no different. Outbreak info as it relates to poultry, per the CDC “We’re gonna have to raise the prices because it’s not only eggs, it’s everything that went up,” Scheele said. “We’re doing well, the customers understand.” While raising prices is a hard yet simple solution to a restaurant’s problems, the issue of why eggs are expensive isn’t quite as easy to crack. “It has to do with a multitude of factors,” said Ben Hoffman, a farmer with Hoffman Farms. Hoffman points to both high feed prices, and the bird flu. He says it started early this year worldwide in places like China and has yet to subside. “The vast amount of flocks that are contracting around the globe, it’s a lot earlier than normal,” said Hoffman. Affected Indian counties And the data stateside agrees, per the CDC, nearly 60 million poultry birds have been affected across 47 states. Allen county is among the affected in Indiana, alongside Elkhart, Johnson, Greene, Daviess, and Dubois counties. As of Monday, the CDC reports that among three different outbreaks, Allen county has more than 150 affected birds. Copyright 2023 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Explosion of AI-generated writing will pose challenge … Smart Home / 46 mins ago When technology threatens to mislead people spending their money, shoppers should take a moment to ensure they aren’t duped when making purchasing decisions. High egg prices have you dreaming of a chicken coop? … Nutrition / 17 hours ago If you’re daydreaming of having a flock of your own, here’s everything you need to build a backyard chicken coop. Best cross-country skis Snow Sports / 17 hours ago Cross-country skis are made for skiing across flat terrain, as well as going uphill and downhill. View All BestReviews Top Stories Dog dies in heavy southeast FW house fire Mom, kids die after “mental health crisis” Indiana man arrested after child seen with gun ‘My heart and soul’: Antiques on Broadway closing New vintage store offers hip stylin’ from back in … Top Stories More Stories Dog dies in heavy southeast FW house fire Mom, kids die after “mental health crisis” ‘My heart and soul’: Antiques on Broadway closing NHC tracks ‘uncommon’ January disturbance in Atlantic Family of 12-yr-old amputee sues hospital Joe Rogan podcast sparks mammoth fossil hunt Dog found clinging to life 20 hours after shooting These cities have the worst life expectancy: report More Stories WANE 15 Video Hanna Street Fire 6 hours ago Rising Egg Prices 9 hours ago Local business bears pain of high egg prices 9 hours ago Chicago hockey team plays after Warsaw crash 12 hours ago Hines announces future city council plans 12 hours ago Arrest caught on camera after overnight chase in … 20 hours ago MLK memorial in DC 16 hours ago Woman missing since Dec. 23 found by sister on train 2 days ago Rollover crash shuts down I-69 12 hours ago Jane’s Joy will melt your heart 21 hours ago FW man arrested after multi-state pursuit 18 hours ago More Videos More from WANE 15 Players in Warsaw bus crash reunite with first responders Hines says he’s not running again for city council Family of 12-yr-old amputee sues hospital Dog found clinging to life 20 hours after shooting Wanted fugitive arrested after overnight chase VIDEO: Visitors at Martin Luther King Jr. memorial Woman on train finds deaf sister missing since Dec. ISP: Ladder to blame for rollover crash on I-69 More from WANE 15 Trending Stories Local business bears pain of high egg prices ‘My heart and soul’: Antiques on Broadway closing Family of 12-yr-old amputee sues hospital Drugs, fake money found in car driving too slowly Jane’s Joy will melt your heart Close Thanks for signing up! Watch for us in your inbox. Subscribe Now Daily News SIGN UP NOW Don't Miss Carroll Shelby’s 1968 Ford Mustang Black Hornet headed … Chipotle caves, will allow orders for ‘hacked’ item VIDEO: Bear goes for a swim in private pool Sand artist brings Zen to storm-battered coast Georgia woman celebrates 114th birthday Northeast Indiana and northwest Ohio's most comprehensive news source Follow Us News App Get the iOS app Get the Android app from Google Play Weather App Get the iOS Weather app Get the Android Weather app from Google Play Contact Us Information About Us EEO Report FCC Public File Top Stories Video Center Advertise With Us TV Schedule Work For Us Report It Privacy Policy Terms Of Use Covers FCC Applications Public File Assistance Contact The Hill NewsNation BestReviews Content Licensing Nexstar Digital Journalistic Integrity Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information © 1998 - 2023 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ × Close Ad
